Adds native lazy loading blog post (#1016)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/native-lazy-loading/index.md

---
title: Native lazy loading for the web
subhead: Browser-level native lazy loading is finally here!
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani
  - mathiasbynens
date: 2019-06-20
hero: hero.png
alt: Phone outline with loading image and assets
description: |
  This post covers the loading attribute and how it can be used
  to defer the loading of images and iframes
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance
---

Support for natively lazy-loading images and iframes is coming to the web!

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="./lazyload.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="./lazyload.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
 <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     <a href="https://mathiasbynens.be/demo/img-loading-lazy">Lazy loading demo</a>

Reviewer: There's a few demos here (this one and the firebaseapp one below). Do we want to rehost them on web.dev somehow?

Author: I personally don't mind if they're hosted separately for the meantime, but that's a good point.

@robdodson have we been making sure all demos are hosted on web.dev?

Reviewer: My concern was not about remixability(tm) but rather about making sure the content stays around forever. If we link to external websites (like Glitch or my own website) there's no guarantee the content will stay up.

To be clear, I'm okay with landing this as-is, and definitely don't want to block this PR :) Longer-term, I think it would be nice to self-host demos, or at least have some kind of backup strategy in case Glitch / my website / any other places we point to for demos ever shut down.

requested type of asset for a majority of websites and usually take up more bandwidth than any other
resource. At the 90th percentile, sites send down ~4.7 MB of images on desktop & mobile. That’s a
lot of cat pictures.

Embedded inline frames use a lot of data too and can also harm page performance. Only loading
non-critical, below-the-fold images and iframes when the user is likely to see them will improve
page load times, minimize user bandwidth and reduce memory usage.

Currently, there are two ways to defer the loading of off-screen images and inline frames:

- Using the [Intersection Observer
  API](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/04/intersectionobserver)
- Using [`scroll`, `resize`, or `orientationchange` event
  listeners](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/lazy-loading-guidance/images-and-video/#using_event_handlers_the_most_compatible_way)

Either option can let developers include lazy loading functionality, and many have built third-party
libraries to provide even simpler-to-use abstractions. With lazy loading supported directly by the
browser however, an external library would not need to be loaded and relied upon. This will also

> ensure that deferred loading of images and frames will still work even if JavaScript is disabled on

Reviewer: Slightly simpler:

> This will also ensure that deferred loading of images and frames will still work

--> 

> This also ensures that deferred loading of images and frames still works

(in general, "avoid will" is a pretty good advice)

and iframes until the user scrolls near them:

```html
<img src="image.png" loading="lazy" alt="…" width=”200” height=”200” />
<iframe src="https://example.com" loading="lazy"></iframe>
```

The supported values for the attribute are as follows:

- `loading="auto"`: Default lazy-loading behaviour of the browser, which is the same as not
  including the attribute.
- `loading="lazy"`: Defer loading of resource until it reaches a certain distance from the viewport.
- `loading="eager"`: Load resource immediately regardless of where it is located on the page.

Updates to the feature will continue to be rolled in with a final, stable launch in Chrome 76 at the
earliest, but can currently be tested by enabling the following flags:

- `chrome://flags/#enable-lazy-image-loading`
- `chrome://flags/#enable-lazy-frame-loading`

### Image loading

In order for images to be lazy loaded effectively, height and width attributes must be included (or
specified directly in the inline style).

```html
<img src="…" alt="…" loading="lazy" width="200" height="200"> <!-- lazy-loaded -->
<img src="…" alt="…" loading="lazy" style="height:200px;width:200px;"> <!-- lazy-loaded -->

> <img src="…" alt="…" loading="lazy"> <!-- not lazy-loaded -->

Author: TODO: Need to confirm/fix this (images might still be able to load without dimensions but with some reflow)

Author: Also need to add a note on console.log that shows for the first image without dimensions ([crbug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=973124#c2))

Reviewer 2: My intuition is that the console.log implementation won't be ready in time for the post going out. If it is however, +1 to including.

---
title: Native lazy loading for the web
subhead: Browser-level native lazy loading is finally here!
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani
  - mathiasbynens
date: 2019-06-20
hero: hero.png
alt: Phone outline with loading image and assets
description: |
  This post covers the loading attribute and how it can be used
  to defer the loading of images and iframes
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance
---

Support for natively lazy-loading images and iframes is coming to the web!

> <figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">

Author: Good point :)

Updated to a much slower version of scrolling with a lot less flashing

> <figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">

Author: Done 🚀

---
title: Native lazy loading for the web
subhead: Browser-level native lazy loading is finally here!
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani
  - mathiasbynens
date: 2019-06-20
hero: hero.png
alt: Phone outline with loading image and assets
description: |
  This post covers the loading attribute and how it can be used
  to defer the loading of images and iframes.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance
---

Support for natively lazy loading images and iframes is coming to the web! The following video shows
a [demo](https://mathiasbynens.be/demo/img-loading-lazy) of this feature.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="./lazyload.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="./lazyload.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
</figure>

Starting with Chrome 76, you'll be able to use the new `loading` attribute to lazy load resources,

> without the need for a separate JavaScript library. Let's dive into the details.

Author: Ah good point. Updated sentence to `without the need to write custom lazy loading code or use a separate JavaScript library`

- Using the [Intersection Observer
  API](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/04/intersectionobserver)
- Using `scroll`, `resize`, or `orientationchange` [event
  handlers](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/lazy-loading-guidance/images-and-video/#using_event_handlers_the_most_compatible_way)

Either option can let developers include lazy loading functionality, and many developers have built
third-party libraries to provide abstractions that are even easier to use. With lazy loading
supported directly by the browser, however, there's no need for an external library. Native lazy
loading also ensures that deferred loading of images and frames still work even if JavaScript is
disabled on the client.

## The `loading` attribute

Today, Chrome already loads images at different priorities depending on where they're located with
respect to the device viewport. Images below the viewport are loaded with a lower priority, but they're
still fetched as soon as possible.

In Chrome 76, you can use the `loading` attribute to completely defer the loading of offscreen images
and iframes until the user scrolls near them:

```html

> <img src="image.png" loading="lazy" alt="…" width="”200”" height="”200”" />

Reviewer 3: > `<img ... width="”200”" height="”200”" />`

`<img ... width="200" height="200"/>`?

Author: Thanks for this, updated both

<iframe src="https://example.com" loading="lazy"></iframe>
```

Here are the supported values for the `loading` attribute:

- `auto`: Default lazy loading behavior of the browser, which is the same as not
  including the attribute.
- `lazy`: Defer loading of the resource until it reaches a certain distance from the viewport.
- `eager`: Load the resource immediately, regardless of where it's located on the page.

The feature will continue to be updated until it's launched in a stable release (Chrome 76 at the
earliest). But you can try it out by enabling the following flags in Chrome:

- `chrome://flags/#enable-lazy-image-loading`
- `chrome://flags/#enable-lazy-frame-loading`

### Image loading

To prevent the surrounding content from reflowing when a lazy loaded image is downloaded, make sure to add `height` and `width` attributes to the `<img>` element or specify their values directly in an inline style.

```html

> <img src="..." loading="lazy" width="”200”" height="”200”" />

Reviewer 3: > `<img ... width="”200”" height="”200”" />`

`<img ... width="200" height="200"/>`?

Author: Updated

---
title: Native lazy loading for the web
subhead: Browser-level native lazy loading is finally here!
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani
  - mathiasbynens
date: 2019-07-17
hero: hero.png
alt: Phone outline with loading image and assets
description: |
  This post covers the loading attribute and how it can be used
  to control the loading of images and iframes.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance
---

Support for natively lazy loading images and iframes is coming to the web! This video shows
a [demo](https://mathiasbynens.be/demo/img-loading-lazy) of the feature:

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="./lazyload.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="./lazyload.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
</figure>

> Starting with Chrome 76, you'll be able to use the new `loading` attribute to lazy load resources

Reviewer 4: Should it be "to lazily load?"

Reviewer 5: Good catch. I think there's a larger revision to be made here, actually. I had proposed removing the hyphen in "lazy-load," but @addyosmani said he'd like to standardize on the hyphenated version. So, I need to go through and fix that. I'll add a commit in just a bit. (Sorry for the unnecessary trouble, @housseindjirdeh!)

Reviewer 5: Good catch. I had proposed going with "lazy load," but @addyosmani suggested we standardize on "lazy-load" (with a hyphen), so I've added a commit to take care of that throughout the post. Sorry for the extra trouble, @housseindjirdeh!

Author: No worries at all @mfriesenhahn, and thanks for updating it again throughout the article 👍

page load times, minimizes user bandwidth, and reduces memory usage.

Currently, there are two ways to defer the loading of off-screen images and iframes:

- Using the [Intersection Observer
  API](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/04/intersectionobserver)
- Using `scroll`, `resize`, or `orientationchange` [event
  handlers](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/lazy-loading-guidance/images-and-video/#using_event_handlers_the_most_compatible_way)

Either option can let developers include lazy loading functionality, and many developers have built
third-party libraries to provide abstractions that are even easier to use. With lazy loading
supported directly by the browser, however, there's no need for an external library. Native lazy
loading also ensures that deferred loading of images and iframes still works even if JavaScript is
disabled on the client.

## The `loading` attribute

Today, Chrome already loads images at different priorities depending on where they're located with
respect to the device viewport. Images below the viewport are loaded with a lower priority, but they're
still fetched as soon as possible.

> In Chrome 76, you can use the `loading` attribute to completely defer the loading of offscreen images

Reviewer 4: You can only defer the loading of offscreen images and iframes that can be reached by scrolling. Offscreen resources above or to the left of the page cannot be deferred.

Author: That's a good point, changed to include ` that can be reached by scrolling` at the end of the sentence

and iframes until the user scrolls near them:

```html
<img src="image.png" loading="lazy" alt="…" width="200" height="200">
<iframe src="https://example.com" loading="lazy"></iframe>
```

Here are the supported values for the `loading` attribute:

- `auto`: Default lazy loading behavior of the browser, which is the same as not
  including the attribute.
- `lazy`: Defer loading of the resource until it reaches a [calculated distance](#load-in-distance-threshold) from the viewport.
- `eager`: Load the resource immediately, regardless of where it's located on the page.

The feature will continue to be updated until it's launched in a stable release (Chrome 76 at the
earliest). But you can try it out by enabling the following flags in Chrome:

- `chrome://flags/#enable-lazy-image-loading`
- `chrome://flags/#enable-lazy-frame-loading`

### Load-in distance threshold

All images and iframes that are above the fold—that is, immediately viewable without scrolling—load

> normally. Those that are far outside the device viewport are only fetched when the user scrolls near

Reviewer 4: Consider changing "outside" to "below"

Author: Updated

them.

The distance threshold is not fixed and varies depending on several factors:

- The type of resource being fetched (image or iframe)
- Whether [Lite mode](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/04/data-saver-is-now-lite-mode.html) is enabled
  on Chrome for Android
- The [effective connection type](https://googlechrome.github.io/samples/network-information/)

You can find the default values for the different effective connection types in the [Chromium
source](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/core/frame/settings.json5?l=971-1003&rcl=e8f3cf0bbe085fee0d1b468e84395aad3ebb2cad).
These numbers, and even the approach of fetching only when a certain distance from the viewport is
reached, may change in the near future as the Chrome team improves heuristics to determine when to
begin loading.

{% Aside %}

> There is an [open bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=982020&q=component:Blink) to ensure that these different thresholds can be experimented with by [throttling the network](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network/#throttle) in Chrome DevTools. In the meantime, you will need to override the effective connection type of the browser using the `chrome://flags/#force-effective-connection-type` flag.

Reviewer 6: Fixed in M77.

Author: Nice thanks, updated!

correctly if `intrinsicsize` is specified along with one other dimension (`width` or `height`).

```html
<img src="…" alt="…" loading="lazy" intrinsicsize="250x200" width="450">
<!-- lazy loaded -->
```

{% Aside %}
  Take a look at this [demo](https://mathiasbynens.be/demo/img-loading-lazy) to see how the `loading` attribute works with 100 pictures.
{% endAside %}

### iframe loading

The `loading` attribute affects iframes differently than images, depending on whether the iframe is
hidden. (Hidden iframes are often used for analytics or communication purposes.) Chrome uses the
following criteria to determine whether an iframe is hidden:

- The iframe's width and height are 4 px or smaller.
- `display: none` or `visibility: hidden` is applied.
- The iframe is placed off-screen using negative X or Y positioning.

If an iframe meets any of these conditions, Chrome considers it hidden and won't lazy load it in
most cases. Iframes that _aren't_ hidden will only load when they're within the [load-in distance threshold](#load-in-distance-threshold).
A placeholder shows for lazily loaded iframes that are still being fetched.

> ### Feature Policy

Reviewer 4: Has anyone verified that the feature policies work?

Author: Was under the impression that they're still being worked on (don't see the policy for images with `document.featurePolicy.features()` even with `--enable-experimental-web-platform-features` turned on)

Will definitely like to test them both and even include an example of them into the article (not blocking and something I can add later)

---
title: Native lazy loading for the web
subhead: Browser-level native lazy loading is finally here!
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani
  - mathiasbynens
date: 2019-06-20
hero: hero.png
alt: Phone outline with loading image and assets
description: |
  This post covers the loading attribute and how it can be used

>   to defer the loading of images and iframes.

Reviewer 3: > defer

Probably not important (as the objective of the article may be to motivate developers to **defer** loading of images/frames), but It'd be more technically correct to say "control" here, as the attribute can be used to override `loading-frame-default-eager 'none'`, using `loading="eager"`.

>   to defer the loading of images and iframes.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  to control the loading of images and iframes.
```

tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance

>   - angular

Author: This might have been added by accident @mfriesenhahn

This lazily loads every image below the device viewport unless `loading=eager` is used.

```html
<img src="kitten.jpg" alt="…">
<!-- loaded lazily -->
<img loading="eager" src="puppy.jpg" alt="…">
<!-- loaded eagerly -->
```

The same can be done for iframes:

```
Feature-Policy: loading-frame-default-eager 'none'
```

To learn more about how both these policies work, as well as how to allow the feature for only
certain origins on a page, take a look at the policy proposals for both
[images](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-feature-policy/blob/master/policies/loading-image-default-eager.md)
and
[frames](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-feature-policy/blob/master/policies/loading-frame-default-eager.md).

<div class="w-aside w-aside--note">
  Complete functionality for both feature policies is expected to launch by Chrome 77.
</div>

## FAQ

### Can I change how close an image or iframe needs to be before a load is triggered?

These values are hardcoded and can't be changed through the API. However, they may change in the
future as the Chrome team experiments with different threshold distances and variables.

### Can CSS background images take advantage of the `loading` attribute?

> No, it can only be used with `<img>` tags.

Reviewer 3: "it can _currently_ only be used with `<img>` tags." per https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-feature-policy/issues/311?

- If `loading` is not supported, load a fallback (lazysizes) and initiate it. You can use
  `class=lazyload` as a way to indicate to lazysizes images we want to be lazily loaded.

```html
<!-- Let's load this in-viewport image normally -->
<img src="hero.jpg" alt="…">

<!-- Let's lazy load the rest of these images -->
<img data-src="unicorn.jpg" alt="…" loading="lazy" class="lazyload">
<img data-src="cats.jpg" alt="…" loading="lazy" class="lazyload">
<img data-src="dogs.jpg" alt="…" loading="lazy" class="lazyload">

<script>
  if ('loading' in HTMLImageElement.prototype) {
    const images = document.querySelectorAll('img.lazyload');
    images.forEach(img => {
      img.src = img.dataset.src;
    });
  } else {
    // Dynamically import the LazySizes library
    const script = document.createElement('script');
    script.src =
      'https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lazysizes/4.1.8/lazysizes.min.js';
    document.body.appendChild(script);
  }
</script>
```

Here's a [demo](https://lazy-loading.firebaseapp.com/lazy_loading_native.html) of this pattern. Try
it out in a browser like Firefox or Safari to see the fallback in action.

> <div class="w-aside w-aside--note">

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
```

>   The lazysizes library also provides a <a href="https://github.com/aFarkas/lazysizes/tree/gh-pages/plugins/native-loading">native loading plugin</a>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  The lazysizes library also provides a [native loading plugin](https://github.com/aFarkas/lazysizes/tree/gh-pages/plugins/native-loading)
```

>   that uses browser native lazy loading when available but falls back to its own custom functionality when needed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  that uses native lazy loading when available but falls back to the library's custom functionality when needed.
```
Ambiguous pronoun.

> </div>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
{% endAside %}
```

### How does native lazy loading affect advertisements on a web page?

> All ads displayed to the user in the form of an image or iframe lazy load in the exact same

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
All ads displayed to the user in the form of an image or iframe lazy load just like any other image or iframe.
```

> way.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Native lazy-loading for the web
subhead: Browser-level native lazy-loading is finally here!
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani
  - mathiasbynens
date: 2019-07-17
hero: hero.png
alt: Phone outline with loading image and assets
description: |
  This post covers the loading attribute and how it can be used
  to control the loading of images and iframes.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.

>   - performance

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - performance
draft: true
```

Reviewer 5: Hey, @housseindjirdeh, can you accept this change so we can merge this post while we're waiting for it to be ready to publish?

Reviewer 7: I think Houssein is OOO so I'm going to merge this and then add the draft flag myself.

- Using `scroll`, `resize`, or `orientationchange` [event
  handlers](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/lazy-loading-guidance/images-and-video/#using_event_handlers_the_most_compatible_way)

Either option can let developers include lazy-loading functionality, and many developers have built
third-party libraries to provide abstractions that are even easier to use. With lazy-loading
supported directly by the browser, however, there's no need for an external library. Native lazy
loading also ensures that deferred loading of images and iframes still works even if JavaScript is
disabled on the client.

## The `loading` attribute

Today, Chrome already loads images at different priorities depending on where they're located with
respect to the device viewport. Images below the viewport are loaded with a lower priority, but they're
still fetched as soon as possible.

In Chrome 76, you can use the `loading` attribute to completely defer the loading of offscreen images
and iframes that can be reached by scrolling:

```html
<img src="image.png" loading="lazy" alt="…" width="200" height="200">

> <iframe src="https://example.com" loading="lazy"></iframe>

Reviewer 3: `<iframe>` should also have `alt` attribute.

Reviewer: What makes you say that? [`<iframe>` does not support `alt`.](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/iframe-embed-object.html#the-iframe-element)

Reviewer 3: oh sorry, I meant `title`.

Reviewer 3: per https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/H64.html

Reviewer 7: ah good catch @Malvoz 

yeah it'd be nice to add this. If I recall, the screen reader will halt at the iframe and announce the title. The user can then choose to enter it using a keyboard shortcut or bypass the element.

Reviewer 7: without the title my hunch is it may just read the src url of the iframe which may or may not be useful for the user.

Reviewer 3: I found this https://web.dev/frame-title 😆
